hi it's andrew again i'm going to start
another tutorial today on how to start
up a virtual device so basically you can
have different versions of android
running on your computer these will be
the stock AOSP roms they're not going to
be your typical sense or you know you i
infused roms what you're going to need
to do is go back into your SDK folder
and go into the tools and load up that
android folder on this whole load up to
your SDK and AVD manager before you can
actually start up a navy d you're going
to have to actually download those tools
for each platform that we skipped last
time so i mean if you don't if you want
to skip the 1.5 1.6 those are really
outdated and even 2.1 is getting to be
outdated now so you can pretty much skip
those and only it's all the ones you
want or you can just install all i'm
gonna for the sake of this tutorial
download all of them and i will check
back with you once they're done
installing you just accept all all right
okay now that you have finished record
finished downloading it took about 10
minutes for me on a decent Wi-Fi
connection you have no that and then now
you can actually do a virtual device
you'll also need to download those tools
if you will be doing any app development
those tools really come and help out in
especially like when you're testing out
the app and i would like that arm
another program you'll use for app
development would be eclipse reply would
be your best bet because you can
actually install more development tools
and that and pretty much it will guide
you through what's possible and what's
not like when you're actually putting
in the Java code if something isn't
right it'll actually air out and show
you where the errors are which are
really nice um we'll probably get into
that a little bit later for now we're
going to just do a virtual machine and
this is going to be where you decide
what you want to do I like to name my
virtual devices what I'm actually going
to be using so as a honeycomb I can do a
target of 3.2 will just create this a
will use the default settings and now
when you run this actually start it like
using a 10 inches 10 inch screen size
that's diagonally that'll that's what
most tablets use anyway so this is
actually going to be pretty much more or
less with the Android tablets today are
going to look like it does take a little
bit um quite a bit of a while to load up
on the computer this is probably because
it's not really optimized for Intel CPUs
or anything like that I even using my
quad core computer at home it it really
does still take a long time to boot up
for the first time and every time
actually
this generic Android boot up screen will
be on like every emulator doesn't matter
if it's like you're using Android 1.5 or
doing Android Gingerbread which is 2.3
you're still going to get this same boot
up screen
I'm going to meantime I'm actually going
to load up the SDK or okay sorry general
I'll show you that you can actually
communicate to this to the emulator so
what I do is you're going to change
directory CD again to Android SDK and
inside the folder platform tools because
that's where the adb but like the
android debugging bridge is so you can
actually make sure that your device is
on which here you can actually visually
see it because it's on the computer but
like let's say you had a phone or tablet
and you wanted to make sure that it was
communicating to the computer properly
you can actually type in adb devices if
you do not have the bugging mode turned
arm the phone you should get nothing but
since we have the emulator running you
could actually see the emulator actually
can see multiple devices if you want to
like right now i'm going to hook up my
iphone and you'll see two devices if i
run that again
so here's your emulator um it's
basically just honeycomb and it runs
really slow on a computer incredibly
slow now my macbook has been pretty much
stretched to its limits period so I
don't expect it to actually be any
better anytime suit especially since i'm
actually using a screen capture tool so
that's obviously taking some ram away
from running this properly but if you
wanted to actually test the map but you
have an emulator or any kind of any
emulator going you can actually test out
your apps in the emulator before you go
and publish it to the android market ok
so that's the end of this tutorial just
pretty much how to get an emulator
running and probably next time we're
gonna build a signage in mandra and then
have it running in the emulator so you
can actually see what it's like to build
and test it out make sure that it runs
ok now we'll be using Ubuntu for that
because i personally like building in
the butt too all right check